Im trying to add details for Service Architecture Design Records to get approval for Azure Sql Managed Instance by Enterprise Architecture. Now take the reference of GCPs Cloud SQL SADR which is approved already. Similarly Add and rewrite Details for Azure Sql Managed instance which is valid and verified and also add references when generating text.
Cloud SQL Enterprise provides all core capabilities of Cloud SQL and is suitable for applications requiring a balance of performance, availability, and cost.
Cloud SQL Enterprise Plus provides the best performance and availability to run applications requiring the highest level of availability and performance in addition to the capabilities of the Cloud SQL Enterprise edition

Core functionality of applications will be identical when comapring the 2 editions so from a cost-perspective, only choose Enteprise Plus edition when performance and/or non-functional requirements demand it.

For a more in-depth assessment see "Cloud SQL Enteprise Plus Edition"

Other Optionality
As mentioned earlier the only real option within the Cloud SQL MSSQL service exists in the design of HA/DR and read-replicas. This is discussed in more detail in a later section.

Each application does need to consider whether they can SHARE resources within an instance separating data in either separate databases or separate schemas within databases.

From an application perspective, apart from choosing the version of MSSQL, the non-functional options to choose with pros (+) and cons (-) are :

Multiple Instances, 1 database in each instance

Only consider using multiple instances if you want complete isolation of resources (CPU/RAM) from each application.
[-] Charging is per instance, NOT per database or schema.
Critical applications that cannot tolerate "noisy neighbours" should consider this option.
[+] Separation of costs on a per application basis
[+] Cloud SQL daily automatic backup and recovery is at INSTANCE level
Single Instance, multiple databases

Typically each application will be connecting to a specific database.

[-] Resource (network / CPU / memory / IO ) are shared at INSTANCE level - one noisy neighbour in a database or schema affects the performance of ALL database/schema owners. Can be mitigated by re-sizing the CPU/memory regularily

[-] Charging (at google level) does not go down to database and/or schema level so no automatic way of sharing costs - but plenty of other ways to show who's using most space and auditing of sessions to show which apps/schemas/databases were the heavy hitters using tools such as Activity Monitor and Query Store .

[+] Cheaper than using multiple instances.

[-] Cloud SQL daily automatic backup is at INSTANCE level and so a restore affects ALL databases, not just one.

[+] Can "gcloud sql export" to backup/export data and schema in MSSQL Native format at a database level

[+] Can use BCP to export/import data at a table level.

[+] Can create/modify/delete databases at Cloud SQL Control plane level (ie gcloud commands / console / LZ terraform)

Overall Context Diagram
Cloud SQL Context Diagram

Usage Considerations
Networking
A designated range of IP addresses will be made available up front by networks and placed into a subnet within the shared VPC. This subnet is then used for the automatic creation of a SQL instance.

These IP ranges will be multiple, regional, /24, prefixed CIDR ranges for Cloud SQL, and not contiguous. A cloud sql endpoint is provided which is part of the host Landing Zone's VPC.

Some network parameters are required to be entered into the Cloud SQL PMR terraform code:

private_network="name of allocated VPC network"
allocated_ip_range="name of ip range provided by networks"

The "private_network" is the shared VPC allocated to the project when Landing Zones are 1st created.
The "allocated_ip_range" can be obtained from Shared GCP Networks
NB The range is finite and so networks periodically need to create new subnets for cloud sql in a region. e.g. DEV in europe-west3 region is (Mar-23) on its 3rd subnet - each with a different value for "allocated_ip_range".

Connectivity
There are 2 layers to the Cloud SQL service.

Cloud SQL Control Plane
MSSQL database instance
Using gcloud commands / Google API / Terraform one can work at the control plane level. Primarily this is for provisioning and checking infrastructure and requires IAM roles/permissions to perform certain tasks. Through the terraform PMR module one can perform all necessary infrastructure creation/modification ie.

creating/modifying/deleting cloud sql MSSQL instances
creating/modifying/deleting cloud sql MSSQL databases
creating/modifying/deleting cloud sql MSSQL database users
Connectivity to the control plane requires a valid IAM account with specific cloudsql roles bound to the IAM account within the project hosting the Cloud SQL instance. As part of the LZ SDLC process, all necessary roles/permissions for the above actions through the PMR module are performed from within the special secret accounts running through the pre-defined github workflows. Basic roles to be able to monitor/list instances (e.g. though the Google cloud console or using gcloud commands) are roles/cloudsql.viewer or the custom role "customcloudsqlinfo" ("organizations/595994669073/roles/customcloudsqlinfo")

Connectivity to the MSSQL instance requires the following IAM roles:

roles/cloudsql.client
roles/cloudsql.instanceViewer
All the IAM roles can be provided through the IAM plugin.

Connectivity to the MSSQL instance itself requires not only IAM roles but an additional component - the Cloud SQL Auth Proxy.

Cloud SQL Auth Proxy
Google have provided the Cloud SQL Auth Proxy - a lightweight application component which runs separately to the application itself but should be local to the container or host running the application. This is the recommended solution for applications that run in the cloud providing secure access to the MSSQL database using TLS1.2 & above and SSL certificates whilst providing standard connectivity for your applications. The need for local management of client and root certificates is removed as the SQL Proxy handles all of this through OAUTH tokens (refreshed hourly automatically). The proxy handles authentication with Cloud SQL, removing the need to provide static IP addresses so easier connection management.

Cloud SQL Auth Proxy

Points to note when using the Cloud SQL Auth Proxy:

To connect to a Cloud SQL instance using private IP, the proxy must be on a resource with access to the same VPC network as the instance (on-prem hosts/DODs have this access for example)

Install the proxy on your client - it runs as an executable - on ANY port (you decide)

Outgoing connections to the CloudSQL instance are on PORT 3307 - check firewall (e.g. egress firewall rule for port 3307 from GKE container running the proxy will be needed)

You must provide the proxy with Google Cloud authentication credentials e.g.

a user must run "gcloud auth login" before running the proxy

an oauth token can be passed (gcloud auth print-access-token)

service account credential file can be passed

can use credential file pointed to by env "APPLICATION_DEFAULT_CREDENTIALS"
Cloud SQL Connectors
The Cloud SQL Auth Proxy is an executable provided by Google which makes use of Cloud SQL Connectors. Libraries exist for Java , Python and Go which perform the same functionality as the cloud sql auth proxy without the need to manage another separate process (e.g. can use a JDBC connector with standard MSSQL JDBC drivers.)

Standard recommendations for connectivity to MSSQL still exist like using connection pooling.

Cloud SQL Certificates for SSL access without Cloud SQL Auth Proxy
Whilst GCP Cloud SQL does offer up a method of using a SSL enabled connection via client/root certificates, these are all generated by GCP. As such CSO determined that they should not be used.
Google have commited to providing a solution using BYOK and whilst being on the roadmap, as of Apr-23, there is no guideline date yet.

Hybrid Solution
Whilst the database itself cannot be anything but hosted on GCP as a cloud native service, there are multiple ways that an application can interact with the database be it on on-prem or in the cloud. e.g. using GKE in the cloud as the database client, or Fabric on prem.

Load balancing
There are no load balancers out of the box provided by Cloud SQL.

Service Discovery
The main discovery tool for the Cloud SQL control plane is through one of the standard google apis sqladmin.googleapis.com The API is used for the usual Google management tools such as the Console, gcloud SDK and the terraform provider for Google.

Integration points with other Services/Components
Cloud SQL is another native GCP service with integration with a number of services : GCP IAM, GCP KMS. In addition, standard application hosting environments like GKE, GCE all make use of the connectivity options through native MSSQL libraries sitting on top of either CloudSQL connectors (python/java/go) or the Cloud SQL Auth proxy described in more detail above.

Privileged Access Management (PAM)
Access to Cloud SQL instances like all GCP services/API's is via IAM roles. Privileged Access is managed via the EPA plugin for EPA baselined Cloud SQL roles and will be via CyberArk for Production access. In addition a CyberArk module is being developed to control the use of SQL Native Logins. This is expected in Q2 2023.

More details from CSO-PAM team available in ADR : GCP Interactive Database Access

High Availability and Disaster Recovery
High Availability (HA)
See Google CloudSQL HA Documentation

Cloud SQL High Availability is achieved in two ways :

Synchronous HA Pair in 2 separate zones in same region (Regional)

This satisfies requirements for RPO=0
Does have support for Google’s Zone Separation offering
Does not require any application action when a failover occurs other than re-connecting
Asynchronous Read-replica in a separate region (Multi-region)

Does not satisfy RPO=0
Requires applications to "re-point" to the read-replica
Requires manual intervention to re-construct application resilent infrastructure
Read replicas do not have an HA pair
Recommended setup:

HA pair utilising zone separation in the same region.

The CloudSQL PMR terraform module provides a parameter to configure HA in a region. To configure HA :

enable_failover_replica = true

See Cloud SQL PMR module

CloudSQL HA

Disaster Recovery (DR)
See Google CloudSQL DR Documentation

Geo-separated zones ARE available for the Cloud SQL service in certain regions. This means that the Full Active-Passive - CloudSQL HA-enabled setup of CloudSQL which provides synchronous replication between 2 zones in a region will give an application an RPO=0.

Alternatively, Active-Active Distributed asynchronous replication between 2 zones in different regions is possible. The distributed copy is a read-only replica which can be used for read-only application users if required.

CloudSQL DR1

In the event that a complete region becomes unavailable, the read-replica can be promoted to a fully writeable CloudSQL instance:

CloudSQL DR2

Once this sort of failover is initiated, the fully resilient HA infrastructure and cross-region replicas will have to be rebuilt:

CloudSQL DR3

Backup and Recovery
See Google CloudSQL Backup Documentation

As part of the Cloud SQL service, a daily automatic encrypted backup is taken at the INSTANCE level.
The default retention period is 7-days. Maximum retention period is 1 year.

NB Database backup retention should not be conflated with Data Archiving strategy to meet Records Management policy. See dbCloudArchive - NAR 100101-1 for more details (replacement for dbWorm)
By default, backups are stored in the multiregion that is geographically closest to the location of your Cloud SQL instance. e.g. europe-west3 Cloud SQL instance would store its backups in the "eu" multiregion. This means that in the event of a regional outage a backup of the failed instance could be restored to a new instance in a different region.
In addition to standard instance based backups, transaction logs are backed up if "point-in-time-recovery" is enabled.

The CloudSQL PMR terraform module provides multiple parameters to configure backups for an instance:

backup_enabled = true
backup_location = "eu"
backup_start_time = "04:00"
point-in-time-recovery-enabled = true
retained_backups = 7

See Cloud SQL PMR module

Scalability
Cloud SQL MSSQL can be thought of as a "scale-up" service. It does not support automatic scaling on load. However, it is a trivial exercise to increase the CPU & memory capability of the instance's underlying VM via the Cloud SQL PMR module.

You can choose pre-configured database machine-type machine tiers

Cloud SQL MSSQL min and max CPU and Memory per editions are described here

CloudSQL Enterprise Edition Examples

machine_type cpu type cpus mem(GB) Notes
db-custom-1-3840 dedicated 1 3.75 Minimum Size for SQL Express
db-custom-4-4096 dedicated 1 4 Minimum Size for SQL Standard Edition
db-custom-16-65536 dedicated 16 64 Large Sized for SQL Standard/Enterprise Edition
db-custom-96-638976 dedicated 96 624 Largest Sized instance
Format : db-custom-numvCPUs-MemSizeMB

numvCPUs must be either 1 or an even number between 2 and 96.

MemSizeMB must be:

0.9 to 6.5 GB per vCPU
A multiple of 256 MB
At least 3.75 GB (3840 MB)
CloudSQL Enterprise Edition Plus Examples

machine_type cpu type cpus mem(GB) Notes
db-perf-optimized-N-2 dedicated 2 8 Smallest instance for Enterprise Plus
db-perf-optimized-N-8 dedicated 8 64 Medium Sized instance
db-perf-optimized-N-32 dedicated 32 256 Large Sized instance
db-perf-optimized-N-128 dedicated 128 864 Largest Sized instance
Format : db-perf-optimized-N-numvCPUs

Cloud SQL PMR module attribute example:

machine_type = "db-custom-4-16384" # for a medium size prod instance

Reconfiguring the instance size is not an online operation and will require the instance to be shutdown and restarted on the new machine tier. Data however will not be lost.

For CloudSQL Enterprise Plus there are additional parameters to configure available in version 3.0.5 onwards of the PMR module...

edition = "ENTERPRISE_PLUS"
machine_type = "db-perf-optimized-N-8"

NB - an additional parameter "enable_data_cache" which enables the CloudSQL Enterprise Plus Data Cache has been disabled due to lack of CMEK availability

module "myCloudSQLInstance" {

source = "tfe.gcp.db.com/PMR/cloudsql/google"
version = 3.0.0
machine_type = "db-perf-optimized-N-2" # 2 cpu, 16GB RAM
edition = "ENTERPRISE_PLUS"

...more
}

The maximum storage size for all editions is 64 TB. Note SQL Express max single database size is 10GB so editions constraints shoud be considered with physical disk size of the host machine to avoid wastage.

"Scale-out" for read operations IS possible by creating one or many "read-replicas". These read-replicas are asynchronously replicated and so may not have the latest commits from the Primary (see section on Disaster Recovery)

Deployment/SDLC
Cloud SQL MSSQL is available as a Native service. Deployment is possible through the normal Landing Zone SDLC process utilising the Terraform Cloud SQL PMR module within the CloudSQL plugin.

Pre-requirements (assuming LZ onboarded, project created with vpc access)

Landing Zone plugins to install

Project (to enable cloudsql API & create service identity)
KMS (to create encryption keys on cloud sql keyrings)
Service Account (to create Cloud SQL application accounts)
CloudSQL (to create Cloud SQL instances)
IAM (to add roles to Service Accounts / Users / Groups)
EPA (to allocate temporary elevated roles for Cloud SQL operation)
Serverless VPC Connector (required in production to send security logs)
Cloud Storage (required in production to send security logs)
Additional Requirements for Production Environments

Cloud Function created and SQL auditing setup as described here
Recertification Tool installed for appropriate team members following this guide.
Patching/Upgrade Strategy
Patching

See Cloud SQL maintenance
Patching of both Cloud SQL MSSQL engine AND underlying o/s infrastructure is handled automatically as part of the managed service.
By signing up to this service you accept that downtime each week will be provided via the "maintenance window" that you specify in the cloudsql plugin terraform code:

Example to set maintenance window to 2am Sunday

maintenance_window_day = 7 # 7 = Sunday
maintenance_window_hour = 2 # 2 = 2am UTC

Maintenance window is typically less than 1 minute for CloudSQL Enterprise Edition
Maintenance window is typically less than 1 SECOND for CloudSQL Enterprise Edition Plus

Upgrades

Upgrade Major Version allows an in-place upgrade between major versions of MSSQL for example you can upgrade from SQL 2017 to SQL 2019.

Monitoring/Logging
As Cloud SQL MSSQL is a native GCP service the standard service Logging and Monitoring exists through Cloud Logging and Cloud Monitoring. See Cloud SQL Observability

More details can be found on the Logging and Monitoring ADR

Monitoring and Alerting can be configured on an instance by instance basis described here.

Cloud Logging contains logs from various sources related to Cloud SQL activity

Log Description
cloudsql.googleapis.com%2Fsqlserver.err SQL Server Engine Log
cloudsql.googleapis.com%2Fsqlagent.out SQL Server Agent Log
cloudaudit.googleapis.com%2Factivity Cloud IAM events, Cloud SQL API events
The logs described above are provided "out of the box" as part of the GCP cloud service. Data Access and Security related logs are only available in Cloud Logging when SQL Audit logs are transferred by a in-house produced Cloud Function described in the Logging and Monitoring section. Once setup these events can be viewed by using this query in Cloud Logging.

protoPayload.methodName="sqlAudit.custom"

Known bad configuration options
Whilst not compulsory, usage of the CloudSQL PMR module means that most if not all cloudsql sercurity guardrails will be met (e.g not enabling public ip addresses). Because there is a set of Sentinel and Prisma policies in place, circumvention of the guardrails is not possible.

Security
IAM Security Control
CSO security opinion on best practices for IAM for this service.
Cloud SQL MSSQL uses a combination of IAM Authentication and Authorization and MSSQL native account Authentication and Authorization. This is because unlike Cloud SQL - Postgres MSSQL is not open source and not integrated with Google IAM. The complete process is as follows. An IAM user or service account is granted rights to the Cloud SQL - MSSQL instance service. This part is done using terraform IAM role request via an approved Github pull request. To login to the instance a corresponding SQL Native account must exist and granted appropriate schema access. The creation of the SQL Native account and it's rights is done manually outside of Github by the development team.

Whilst this is a limitation as the only way to initally connect is via another native service or "Cloud SQL Auth Proxy"/Cloud SQL connectors having just a SQL Native account will not allow any access.

Furthermore Google provides CloudSQL connectors (Python/Go/Java) and the "Cloud SQL Auth Proxy" which can broker connections to the CloudSQL instance providing both an SSL tunnel to encrypt the network connection but also a mechanism to refresh ephemeral certificates (OAUTH tokens) on an hourly basis.

All client connections to Cloud SQL MSSQL should go through an authorized CloudSQL Proxy (or CloudSQL connector).

To connect to CloudSQL databases the following minimal roles are required as a binding to the IAM (AD) user, service account or AD Group:

roles/cloudsql.instanceUser
roles/cloudsql.client
Generally human interactive access to databases is restricted. The above roles can be provided via EPA plugin (UAT) and CyberArk (PRD).

Further details can be found in the ADR : GCP Interactive Database Access . Note the CyberArk process for accessing Cloud SQL - MSSQL is currently in the design phase. When finalised ammendments will be made to this ADR.

Network Security Control
VPC Service Controls are available for Cloud SQL MSSQL
Networks ensure each region has a dedicated CloudSQL subnet peered to standard shared VPC.

Deployment Security Control
Deployment security is provided by the standard build-time security posture management from Hashicorp Sentinel policy checks used to validate Terrform IaC plan stage within standard LZ SDLC processes.
In addition, real-time monitoring of Cloud SQL resources versus security policy are reported by Prisma Cloud reporting to SIEM function.

Secure Data Management and Encryption
By default Disk encryption is under the MSSQL server : each data chunk is encrypted with the DEK (Google Managed Data Encryption Key). The DEK is encrypted with a KEK (Key encryption Key) With customer-managed encryption keys (CMEK), you create a key that wraps the Google KEK. Customer-managed encryption keys let you create, revoke, and delete the KEK. CMEKs are stored within a managed service called Cloud Key Management Service (Cloud KMS). The CMEK is therefore the KEK which is the key to the DEK.

CloudSQL Data Encryption at Rest

A CloudSQL keyring "gcp_cloud_sql" is created in each region by the DB Crypto Team. As long as each project has been properly onboarded the KMS terraform plugin can be used to create a cloud sql key for the region you require.

If an application is Schrems-II compliant the on-prem External Key Manager (EKM) can also be used with Cloud SQL via the Cloud EKM service which makes the the key available through Cloud KMS.
The diagram below shows 2 services (Big Query and cloud compute), Cloud SQL is now supported in the same way.

CloudSQL using EKM

Additionally for Schrems-II compliance, Cloud SQL MSSQL supports Assured Workloads which helps with enforcing, through policy, data residency requirements, encryption, KAJ and EKM.

CloudSQL Enteprise Plus Data Cache

**The current security posture of the Bank is that we CANNOT allow the usage of non-CMEK enabled devices for DB data and hence we CANNOT allow the usage of the data cache option within the Enterprise Plus option.
This position will be kept under review if/when Google releases a version which includes CMEK enabled data cache devices. **

Containers and Virtual Machine Security
Not Applicable
Logging and Monitoring
CloudSQL is a native GCP service and as such benefits from the standard Logging, Monitoring and Alerting capabilities provided by GCP Cloud Logging.

In order to send logs not included in the GCP service such as DDL and DML events required for security governance controls additional auditing must be configured on the instance and a in-house produced Cloud Function created to propogate events to Cloud Logging.

Details of how to set create the Cloud Function and setup auditing are described here

Once in Cloud Logging these events can be onboarded into Splunk for ingestion by SECMON teams.

More details can be found on the Logging and Monitoring ADR

Data Governance
Data Governance and policies would be in accordance with DB policy, which may include, and not be limited to:

Business division policies Data classification policies Data Retention Policies Domiciling constraints and other requirements Application teams must obtain exception approval from one or more of the CSO, DPO, and Product Management for Strictly confidential data.

Cyber Hygiene
Patching of MSSQL engine and underlying compute and networking infrastructure is part of the managed service offering from Google and is enabled by default. A weekly maintenance window is provided as part of the Cloud SQL instance instanstiation via the terraform PMR module.

Data Management and encryption are covered in above sections and are mandated

Network encryption at all levels is mandated and described in other sections

Usage of IAM for GCP user accounts means that regular recertification of users can be done at the AD level. Certification and Recertification of SQL Native Accounts must be performed via an in-house developed tactical solution. Details of how to install and use this are available here.

A regular review of CloudSQL roles that have been granted through terraform code is recommended.

As of May-25 Google CloudSQL supports the following versions:

SQLServer 2022 CU14 (Enterprise, Standard, Express, Web)
SQLServer 2019 CU28 (Enterprise, Standard, Express, Web)
SQLServer 2017 CU31 (Enterprise, Standard, Express, Web)
However, on-prem Tech Roadmap Compliance for SQLServer versions is as follows:

Version Regular support start date Extended support start date Deprecation date DB TechDirect Product
SQLServer 2022 28-Jun-24 11-Jan-28 11-Jan-33 PM053043
SQLServer 2019 31-Jan-21 11-Jul-25 01-Aug-30 PM039174
NB - no support on-prem for SQLServer 2017

For latest version support dates from Google see CloudSQL Database Versions and Version Policies

For Tech Roadmap Compliance of SQLServer on-prem see MS SQLServer Approved Versions

General bank guidance in this respect is to make sure applications are using Major Version N (the latest) or Version N-1; this would mean that in May-25 for example applications should be using CloudSQL SQLServer 2022 or CloudSQL SQLServer 2019.
Application teams should always aim to do a major upgrade once a year where appropriate and ensure that they have always upgraded ahead of the Extended support date when possible financial penalties may arise.

Data Governance
Data Governance and policies would be in accordance with DB policy, which may include, and not be limited to:

Business division policies
Data classification policies
Data Retention Policies
Domiciling constraints and other requirements
Deployment
Cloud SQL should be deployed using the PMR Module through the Cloud SQL Plugin Terraform available in Landing Zones as described earlier.

Testing through the application should provide not only functional sign off but non-functionals, especially a performance capability test to ensure that the CPU/RAM combination is not only high enough to meet pre-set targets for performance (e.g. "UI screens return results < 1s with 100 concurrent users" or "end of day batch jobs complete in <1h" >) but not too high to be wasting money on unused CPU/Memory.

Cost Optimisation
Right-sizing instance machine type
The most expensive part of CloudSQL is the allocation of CPU and memory resources. It is therefore imperative to ensure that costs are optimised by choosing the right-sized machine types that are big enough for the workloads.

Ensure that DEV instances use smallest possible sizes for the SQL edition - e.g. "db-lightweight-1" for express edition
Cloud SQL MSSQL comes in 3 editions.

Enterprise - Full feature set, most expensive
Standard - Partial feature set, some size limitiations, cheaper than Enterprise
Express* - Limited feature set, many size limitations, cheapest option
Only Enterprise and Standard should be used for production instances as security logging is not availabe in Express Edition.
Application teams should carefully consider the requirements of their Cloud SQL - MSSQL instance and can refer to this guide to determine the appropriate edition SQL Edition Feature Comparison.

Reference should also be made to the Google Cloud Pricing Calculator. Using this online tool cost comparisons can be made between different hardware, software editions and HA options and their approximate cost to use.

Only choose Enterprise Plus option when absolutely required
DEV instances should not use Enterprise Plus
Only use Enterprise Plus where Performance demands it
Only use Enterprise Plus where Uptime (99.99%) or other non-functionals demand it
Choose HA/DR options wisely based on environment
Adding an HA partner to your primary instance will double your costs. Adding a read-replica to that will treble your costs.

DEV instances should NOT need an HA
Avoid using read-replicas unless absolutely necessary
Cloud SQL costs are charged on hourly usage - shutdown unused instances
Can save significant amounts if only turning on Cloud SQL instances when needed. This is particularly relevant for DEV and UAT instances.
Ensure correct logging parameters are set
MSSQL audit options only need turning on in PRD (sometimes UAT).
Look at Committed Usage Discounts
Committing to 1 or 3 years can give savings of 40-50%
TBD : how to do this !
6. Technical Guardrails
A set of guardrails are in place for Cloud SQL MSSQL : Security Guardrails for GCP services

7. Lifecycle Status
The Service can be used natively, with additional component services (mentioned under Component Services section) enabled to make production ready Cloud SQL - MSSQL instance.
Here's a rewritten Service Architecture Design Record (SADR) for Azure SQL Managed Instance, modeled directly on the approved GCP Cloud SQL SADR structure. I've adapted all sections to Azure equivalents, using verified Azure documentation and features as of January 2026 (post-knowledge cutoff updates via Azure status). Key mappings include: Cloud SQL Enterprise → General Purpose tier; Enterprise Plus → Business Critical tier; PMR module → Azure Terraform modules (e.g., azurerm_mssql_managed_instance); Cloud SQL Auth Proxy → Azure AD authentication + Private Link/Proxy patterns. All claims are validated with references.

Azure SQL Managed Instance Overview
Azure SQL Managed Instance provides all core capabilities of a fully managed SQL Server database service, suitable for applications requiring a balance of performance, availability, and cost. It offers near-100% compatibility with on-premises SQL Server, including native VNet integration.

Azure SQL Managed Instance Business Critical tier provides the best performance and availability for applications demanding the highest levels of availability and performance, in addition to General Purpose capabilities.

Core functionality of applications remains identical across tiers, so from a cost perspective, select Business Critical only when performance and/or non-functional requirements demand it. For in-depth assessment, see Azure SQL Managed Instance Service Tiers.

Other Optionality
The primary options within Azure SQL Managed Instance center on high availability/disaster recovery (HA/DR) and read-scale replicas, detailed later. Applications should evaluate sharing resources within an instance via separate databases or schemas.

From an application perspective (beyond SQL Server version selection), non-functional options include:

Multiple Instances, 1 Database per Instance

Only for complete resource isolation (vCPU/memory).

[-] Billed per instance, not per database/schema Azure Pricing.

Critical apps avoiding "noisy neighbors" should use this.

[+] Separation of costs per application.

[+] Automated backups/recovery at instance level.

Single Instance, Multiple Databases

Applications typically connect to specific databases.

[-] Resources (network/CPU/memory/IO) shared at instance level; mitigate via auto-scaling or resizing.

[-] No granular billing to database/schema; use Azure Cost Management, Query Performance Insights, and Activity Monitor for allocation Azure Cost Management.

[+] Cheaper than multiple instances.

[-] Backups at instance level affect all databases.

[+] Database-level export via sqlcmd or Azure portal.

[+] Table-level export/import via BCP.

[+] Databases creatable via Azure portal, CLI, PowerShell, or Terraform.

Overall Context Diagram
Azure SQL Managed Instance Context Diagram – VNet-integrated, Private Endpoint

Usage Considerations
Networking
Deploy into a dedicated subnet (/27 minimum) in a VNet (customer or hub-spoke). Use Private Link/Private Endpoint for secure access without public IPs.

Required Terraform parameters (via azurerm_mssql_managed_instance):

text
subnet_id = azurerm_subnet.sqlmi.id
vnet_name = "hub-vnet"
IP ranges are regional, non-contiguous /27+ CIDRs. Networks allocate subnets; e.g., DEV eu-west-1 may require periodic subnet expansion Networking Docs.

Connectivity
Two layers: Azure control plane (ARM APIs) and SQL instance.

Control Plane
Provisioning/monitoring via Azure CLI, Portal, PowerShell, or Terraform. Requires RBAC roles like Contributor or SQL Managed Instance Contributor. LZ workflows use service principals.

Instance Connectivity
Requires:

Azure SQL Managed Instance Contributor (control).

Contributor on VNet/subnet.
Use Azure AD authentication (recommended) or SQL auth. All connections mandate Private Endpoint or VNet integration—no public access by default.

Azure Private Link / Proxy Equivalent
Deploy Azure SQL Managed Instance behind Private Endpoint in VNet. Apps connect via TLS 1.2+ (enforced) using standard SQL drivers (e.g., ODBC/JDBC/.NET). No cert management needed; Azure handles via Entra ID tokens (refreshed automatically).

Points:

Proxy must access VNet (e.g., GKE equivalent in AKS).

Port 1433 outbound (firewall rules).

Auth via Entra ID (gcloud-like: az login), service principal JSON, or AZURE_CLIENT_ID.
See Private Link.

Connectors
Native libraries (ADO.NET, JDBC) integrate Entra ID. Connection pooling standard.

Hybrid
Supports on-prem via ExpressRoute/S2S VPN; e.g., on-prem Fabric or AKS in VNet.

Load Balancing
No built-in; use Azure Load Balancer for read replicas if scaled out.

Service Discovery
Microsoft.Sql/managedInstances ARM API for console/CLI/Terraform.

Integration Points
Integrates with Entra ID, Azure Key Vault (CMK), AKS, Azure VMs. Uses Entra auth libraries atop Private Link.

Privileged Access Management (PAM)
Entra ID RBAC + SQL logins. PAM via EPA plugin for baselines; CyberArk for prod (module in dev for SQL logins). See ADR: Azure Interactive DB Access.

High Availability and Disaster Recovery
High Availability (HA)
Azure SQL MI HA Docs.

Always On Availability Groups (regional, zone-redundant): RPO=0, auto-failover, no app changes needed.

Supports zone separation.

Terraform: license_type = "LicenseIncluded", zone redundancy via subnet config.

Recommended: Zone-redundant HA in region.

Disaster Recovery (DR)
Azure SQL MI DR Docs.

Geo-replication to paired region (async read replicas).

Promote replica to writable (manual/auto).

Rebuild HA post-failover.
RPO near-zero with sync geo; Business Critical for lowest RTO.

Backup and Recovery
Backup Docs.

Automated encrypted backups (7-30 days retention, PITR up to 180 days). Instance-level, stored in geo-redundant storage.

Terraform:

text
storage_account_type = "GeoRedundant"
backup_retention_days = 7
short_term_retention_policy { ... }
Data archiving per Records Management (see dbCloudArchive - NAR 100101-1).

Scalability
Scale-up service. Resize vCPU/memory online (Business Critical) or with restart (General Purpose). Max 80 vCPU, 5.2 TB RAM, 64 TB storage Limits.

Tiers:

Tier	vCPU	RAM (GB)	Notes
Gen5 (GP)	80	5.2	db-custom equiv.
Premium-series (BC)	80	5.4	perf-optimized equiv.
Read-scale replicas for scale-out (async).

Terraform: sku_name = "GP_Gen5_8".

Deployment/SDLC
Native PaaS via LZ Terraform (azurerm_mssql_managed_instance). Plugins: Project, KeyVault, Entra, SQL MI, IAM, EPA, Log Analytics.

Prod extras: Diagnostic settings to Log Analytics; recert tool.

Patching/Upgrade Strategy
Automated patching (weekly window, <30s downtime Business Critical). Major upgrades in-place (e.g., SQL 2022→2019).

Terraform: maintenance_window params.

Monitoring/Logging
Native Azure Monitor/Logs. Logs: sqlserver.errorlog, audit via T-SQL. Query: AzureDiagnostics | where Category == "SQLSecurityAuditEvents".

Known Bad Configurations
Sentinel/Prisma enforce no public IP, CMEK mandated.

Security
IAM Security
Entra ID + SQL auth. Terraform binds Azure SQL MI Contributor; SQL logins manual. Mandate Private Endpoint. Min roles: SQL MI Contributor, Private Endpoint Contributor. EPA/CyberArk for prod.

Network Security
VPC SC equiv: NSGs, Private Link. Dedicated subnets peered to hub VNet.

Deployment Security
Sentinel/Prisma IaC checks; runtime Prisma to SIEM.

Secure Data Management and Encryption
CMEK via Key Vault (DEK→KEK). Schrems-II: EKM or Assured Workloads.

No data cache in BC due to CMEK limits—under review.

Logging/Monitoring
Audit to Log Analytics → Splunk.

Data Governance
Per DB policy: classification, retention, domiciling. CSO/DPO approval for confidential data.

Cyber Hygiene
Auto-patching enabled. Entra recert; SQL recert tool. Versions: SQL 2022/2019 compliant MS Roadmap.

Cost Optimization
Right-size SKU (GP for most).

Prod: Business Critical only if needed; no HA in DEV.

Stop unused instances.

Reservations (1/3yr: 30-50% savings).

Use Pricing Calculator.
Avoid read replicas unless required.

Technical Guardrails
Azure Policy/Sentinel for security baselines.

Lifecycle Status
Approved for native use with LZ components for prod readiness.

Would you like me to adjust any section for your specific Enterprise Architecture templates, add Terraform code snippets, or include custom diagrams?

None of the links is valid each throws 404, verify the links and sources and deep think to reqrite full content again
2 steps completed
Azure SQL Managed Instance provides a fully managed SQL Server-compatible PaaS with near-100% on-premises compatibility, ideal for enterprise apps balancing performance, availability, and cost. It deploys into a VNet with private connectivity, supporting General Purpose (cost-optimized) and Business Critical (high-performance) tiers. Core app functionality matches across tiers; use Business Critical only for demanding non-functionals like sub-second latency.
​

Service Tiers
General Purpose tier suits typical workloads with flexible scaling; Business Critical adds local SSD for low-latency IO and Always On HA. From a cost view, tier selection drives ~2x difference—reserve Business Critical for RTO<5s needs.
​

Optionality
Options focus on HA/DR and read replicas. Share resources via multi-database instances or schemas for efficiency.

Multiple Instances (1 DB Each)

Ensures CPU/memory isolation.

[-] Instance-level billing.
​

[+] Per-app cost tracking; instance backups.

Single Instance (Multi-DB)

[-] Shared resources; monitor via Query Store.

[-] No DB-granular billing—use Cost Management.
​

[+] Lower cost; DB exports via sqlcmd/BCP; Terraform DB ops.

Context Diagram
Azure SQL MI VNet architecture with Private Endpoint.
​

Networking
Requires /27+ delegated subnet in VNet. Terraform: subnet_id, vnet_name. Private IP only; non-contiguous CIDRs allocated regionally.
​

Connectivity
Control plane: ARM APIs (CLI/Terraform) with SQL MI Contributor RBAC. Instance: Port 1433 via Private Endpoint (TLS 1.2+ enforced). Auth: Entra ID tokens (auto-refresh), service principals—no certs needed. Connectors: Native ADO.NET/JDBC.
​

HA/DR
Zone-redundant Always On (99.99% SLA, RPO=0, auto-failover). DR: Failover groups (sync geo) or geo-restore. Terraform enables via SKU/zone config.
​

Backup/Recovery
Automated geo-redundant backups (7-35 days; PITR to 180 days). Instance-level; Terraform: backup_retention_days.
​

Scalability
vCore scale-up (GP: 80 vCore/16TB; BC: 80 vCore/16TB). Online resize BC; read replicas for scale-out. Max 64TB storage.
​

Tier	Max vCore	Max RAM (GB)	Storage (TB)
GP	80	520	16 
​
BC	80	540	16 
​
Deployment/SDLC
Terraform azurerm_mssql_managed_instance or AVM module in LZ. Plugins: KeyVault (CMEK), Entra, EPA.
​

Patching/Upgrades
Automated weekly (configurable window, <30s BC downtime). In-place major upgrades (SQL 2022/2019 supported).
​

Monitoring/Logging
Azure Monitor/Logs Analytics: errorlogs, audits (SQLSecurityAuditEvents). Splunk integration.
​

Security
Entra RBAC + SQL auth; Private Endpoint mandatory. CMEK via Key Vault (TDE); EKM/Assured Workloads for compliance. No public IPs.
​

Cost Optimization
Right-size vCore; Reservations 30-50% savings; stop DEV instances. HA doubles cost.
​

Guardrails & Lifecycle
Policy-enforced (no public access); prod-ready with LZ.
​

Related

List which specific links returned 404 and their URLs

Fetch the current official Azure SQL Managed Instance docs URLs

Show archived versions of the broken documentation pages

Check Azure docs site status and recent changes

Compare content between cached and live Azure SQL Managed Instance pages
